Changelog v2.9.0-beta.1 (#11893)
mapbox/mapbox-gl-js: CHANGELOG.md

## 2.9.0-beta.1

### Features ✨

* Add `globe` projection. This new projection displays the map as a 3d globe and can be enabled by either passing `projection: globe` to the map constructor or by calling `map.setProjection('globe')`. All layers are supported by globe except for Custom Layers and Sky.
* Extend atmospheric `fog` with three new style specification properties: `high-color`, `space-color` and `star-intensity` to allow the design of atmosphere around the globe and night skies. ([#11590](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11590))

> * Add a new line layer paint property in the style specification: `{"line-trim-offset", [trim-start, trim-end]}`, the property will only be effective when `line-gradient` property is set. The line part between `[trim-start, trim-end]` will be marked as transparent to make a vanishing effect. ([#11570](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11570))

Reviewer: Nice! Can we get this even shorter?
```suggestion
* Add a new line layer paint property in the style specification: `line-trim-offset` that can be used to create a custom fade out with improved update performance over `line-gradient`. ([#11570](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11570))
```

## 2.9.0-beta.1

### Features ✨

> * Add `globe` projection. This new projection allow the design of 3d globe and can be enabled by either passing `projection: globe` to the map constructor or by calling `map.setProjection('globe')`. All layers are supported by globe except for Custom Layers and Sky.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add `globe` projection. This new projection displays the map as a 3d globe and can be enabled by either passing `projection: globe` to the map constructor or by calling `map.setProjection('globe')`. All layers are supported by globe except for Custom Layers and Sky.
```

> * Extend atmospheric `fog` with three new style specification properties: `high-color`, `space-color` and `star-intensity` to allow the design of atmosphere around the globe. ([#11590](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11590))

Reviewer: Stars can also be used as a new feature to create night skies outside of globe, no? Maybe we should mention this here (also something to keep in mind for docs examples).

> * Add a new line layer paint property in the style specification: `{"line-trim-offset", [trim-start, trim-end]}`, the property will only be effective when `line-gradient` property is set. The line part between `[trim-start, trim-end]` will be marked as transparent to make a line gradient a vanishing effect. The line trim-off percentage is based on the whole line range `[0.0, 1.0]`. If either `trim-start` or `trim-end` offset is out of valid range, the default range `[0.0, 0.0]` will be set. ([#11570](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11570))

Reviewer: This feels very verbose, can we cut it down and direct readers to docs or the PR for specific instructions?

Author: Yep, I already trimmed it a bit but it's still too much, I'll shorten again.

> * Add an option for providing a geolocation adapter to `GeolocateControl` ([#11614](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11614))

Reviewer: Hat tip! Also IMO liking to the original PR is more useful.
```suggestion
* Add an option for providing a geolocation adapter to `GeolocateControl` ([#10400](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/10400)) (h/t [behnammodi](https://github.com/behnammodi))
```

> * Add an option for providing a geolocation adapter to `GeolocateControl` ([#10400](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/10400)) (h/t [behnammodi](https://github.com/behnammodi))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add an option for providing a geolocation adapter to `GeolocateControl`. ([#10400](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/10400)) (h/t [behnammodi](https://github.com/behnammodi))
```

* Add `Map.Title` property to locale options to localise the map `aria-label`. ([#11549](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11549)) (h/t [andrewharvey](https://github.com/andrewharvey))
* Allow duplicated coordinates in tile request URLs. ([#11441](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11441)) (h/t [ozero](https://github.com/ozero))

> * Add `source` field requirement to terrain exaggeration in the style specification.  ([#11664](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11664))

Reviewer: I don't think this is a feature. Maybe this should be in Bug Fixes of the style spec changelog?
```suggestion
```

* Fix markers in fog sometimes becoming more visible when behind terrain. ([#11658](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11658))
* Fix an issue where setting terrain exageration to 0 could prevent the zoom to be resolved. ([#11830](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11830))

## 2.8.2

### Bug fixes 🐞

* Fix an issue where the special bundle for CSP-restricted environments was not compatible with further minification in some bundling setups. ([#11790](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11790))

## 2.8.1

### Bug fixes 🐞

* Fix the special bundle for CSP-restricted environments that broke in the 2.8.0 release. ([#11739](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11739))

## 2.8.0

### Performance improvements 🏁

* Improve memory usage by freeing memory more eagerly after loading tiles. ([#11434](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11434))
* Improve memory usage by reducing repeated line labels on overscaled tiles. ([#11414](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11414))
* Improve performance when placing many symbols on terrain. ([#11466](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/11466))

### Bug fixes 🐞

> 

Reviewer: Nice formatting catches
